[Music]
once upon a time there was an institute
with access to a variety of large
neuroscientific data sets
dozens of researchers depended on
pre-processed versions of these datasets
for the project
the central coordinated pre-processing
efforts however suffered from a lack of
transparency and reproducibility there
was pre-processed data but over time the
knowledge of who created it how it was
created or where it was stored was lost
with this lack of transparency reuse was
difficult and ceased
but when every research group
pre-processed the data individually it
resulted not only in unsustainable
duplicate computing efforts but also
filled up the disk space of the compute
cluster in no time
and when data sets became too big to be
computed even once things had to change
my name is adina and my colleagues and i
created a framework to not only make
processing of large scale data sets
possible but its outcomes also easily
shareable transparent and automatically
recomputable
we start with a datalet dataset on a
computational cluster datasets are based
on git repositories but can version
control digital files of any size such
as the uk biobank data which we
retrieved using data.uk biobank as you
can see here datasets can contain other
datasets this is useful to structure
large datasets into smaller units but
also to link datasets as dependencies to
one another
we use one dataset to link ukb data and
a software dataset with a computational
pipeline in the form of a software
container as analysis dependencies
datasets can drop and re-retrieve file
content that is hosted elsewhere despite
tracking terabytes of data datasets can
thus be tiny in size this feature is
used to create hundreds of single
subject analysis that only retrieve the
files they need
at analysis execution a job scheduler
distributes the analysis over available
compute nodes each compute node clones
the topmost dataset to create a
short-lived ephemeral clone resulting in
a network of temporary dataset copies
each ephemeral clone is tasked with one
subset of analysis execution this job is
performed with a data that contains one
call its advantage is that the full
digital analysis provenance is captured
in a structured record that can be used
for automatic re-execution
provenance and computed results are
saved pushed and when all jobs are
finished merged back into the central
dataset
throughout the process a special
internal data set representation
minimizes disk space and inode usage and
provides optional encryption during
transport this allows processing of data
sets that are larger than the available
resources with only minimal software
requirements on the server side
because data sets can be easily shared
with appropriate audiences the resulting
data sets can be distributed in a
streamlined transparent and reusable
manner as jobs were computed in isolated
compute environments they are
automatically portable to other
infrastructure as long as data light and
the employed container technology are
available whoever obtains this data set
can thus recompute each individual job
on their own computer automatically